content/posts/2019/basic-docker-notes.md, before:

---
title: "Basic Docker Notes"
date: 2019-12-28T00:08:01-05:00
categories: ["devops", "docker"]
---

To run a container from an image:

```bash
docker container run -it --rm ubuntu /bin/bash
```

`-t`: terminal inside  
`-i`: (STDIN) grabbing  
`--rm`: remove container automatically when process exits  
`--name`: name the container or daemon  
`-d`: daemonize the container running  

To list all containers:

```bash
docker container ps -a
```

To start or stop container:

```bash
docker container stop container_name
```

To remove container(s):

```bash
docker container rm -f $(docker container ps -aq)
```

`-q`: print only container IDs

To run a container as a daemon:

```bash
docker container run -d --name "test-nginx" -p 8080:80 -v $(pwd):/usr/share/nginx/html:ro nginx:latest
```

`-p`: port mapping, `host_port:container_port`  
`-v`: volume mounting, `host_dir:container_dir`  
`$(pwd)`: current working dir  

To check the information of a resource(container or image or volume or network):

```bash
docker container inspect container_name
```

To write a basic Dockerfile:

```bash
FROM        #Set base image
RUN         #Execute command in container
ENV         #Set environment variable
WORKDIR     #Set working directory
VOLUME      #Create a mount point for a volume
CMD         #Set executable for container
```

To build an image from Dockerfile:

```bash
docker build -t image_name .
```

`.`: means context is the current working directory.  
`-t`: sets a name for the image  

For accessing to the docker daemon as a non-root user

```bash
groupadd docker
usermod -a -G docker $USER
```

Rule of thumb  
* 1 app = 1 container
* Process should be running in the foreground
* Keep data in volumes, not in containers
* Do not use SSH, use `docker exec` instead
* Avoid manual configurations inside container

Happy dockerizing, Gents! 🙂

Commit message:

feat: add docker build cache clean command

content/posts/2019/basic-docker-notes.md, after:

---
title: "Basic Docker Notes"
date: 2019-12-28T00:08:01-05:00
categories: ["devops", "docker"]
---

To run a container from an image:

```bash
docker container run -it --rm ubuntu /bin/bash
```

`-t`: terminal inside  
`-i`: (STDIN) grabbing  
`--rm`: remove container automatically when process exits  
`--name`: name the container or daemon  
`-d`: daemonize the container running  

To list all containers:

```bash
docker container ps -a
```

To start or stop container:

```bash
docker container stop container_name
```

To remove container(s):

```bash
docker container rm -f $(docker container ps -aq)
```

`-q`: print only container IDs

To run a container as a daemon:

```bash
docker container run -d --name "test-nginx" -p 8080:80 -v $(pwd):/usr/share/nginx/html:ro nginx:latest
```

`-p`: port mapping, `host_port:container_port`  
`-v`: volume mounting, `host_dir:container_dir`  
`$(pwd)`: current working dir  

To check the information of a resource(container or image or volume or network):

```bash
docker container inspect container_name
```

To write a basic Dockerfile:

```bash
FROM        #Set base image
RUN         #Execute command in container
ENV         #Set environment variable
WORKDIR     #Set working directory
VOLUME      #Create a mount point for a volume
CMD         #Set executable for container
```

To build an image from Dockerfile:

```bash
docker build -t image_name .
```

`.`: means context is the current working directory.  
`-t`: sets a name for the image  

For accessing to the docker daemon as a non-root user:

```bash
groupadd docker
usermod -a -G docker $USER
```

Remove all unused(dangling) build cache:
```bash
docker builder prune
```

Rule of thumb  
* 1 app = 1 container
* Process should be running in the foreground
* Keep data in volumes, not in containers
* Do not use SSH, use `docker exec` instead
* Avoid manual configurations inside container

Happy dockerizing, Gents! 🙂
